# BSED - sed expression builder (v1.0.0)

BSED is an expression builder for regular expressions based on the passed format. A format is just a fancy way of describing what you want the regular expression to target. Certain regex formats are hard to write or remember, and this is supposed to take that complexity out of regular expressions. Please note the output expression should be used in a command that supports regex! Generally using indirection will result in the regex being read improperly as any characters that match an escape sequence will get transformed. If you are to save it, try saving it to a variable from a subshell call to bsed without quoting the subshell expression. i.e. `myregex=$(bsed <format>)`. Also note that the surrounding commands for `sed` will still need input, this will just help organize what is an expression versus a command separator for `sed`.

## Usage

General usage of bsed is `bsed <format>`. You can use '\*' to grab a wildcard character, '\*\*' to grab any amount of characters, '%' to grab a single digit, '%%' to grab multiple digits, and use '\*%' to grab anything. Groupings within the format can be defined by '[' and ']' to signify a start/end to a group to grab separately from the rest of the expression format. ';' signifies space. It doesn't matter the amount, it just claims any amount of space

Great example of this is to identify and adjust numbers in a set, such as a semantic version number. The version file or version within the code may be prepended or suffixed with any amount of random characters or digits. To ensure you only grab the parts you want, you can surround the style of versioning with wildcard formats like so: `bsed '**;v[%%.%%.%%]?;**'`. This will grab any amount of characters, followed by the letter 'v', followed by the semantic version (x.x.x) and then any amount of characters. This is a great way to ensure you only grab the version number and not any other characters that may be prepended or suffixed to the version number. Plug the output expression into a `grep` or `sed` command, and it will find and return or replace the version number only. You can then break it down further with a `cut` to get each individual number, and viola. Just a small usecase for this very powerful tool.
